[theme music]
David, it's me. Call me back.
Grace Harper is under
police protection.
I think someone's outside.
I'm frightened.
Grace, I got your message.
I can't get away right now.
[David]But I'll send round
someone you can trust.
Don't worry.
So, you want me to go round
there?
Please.
Detective Constable Rob Brady.
Grace?
Rob?
Grace Harper's dead.
[tense music]
[suspenseful music]
[music continues]
[clattering]
[tap]
[panting]
Step back. Give me some room
here. You.
[pants]
Call the police.
[intense music]
[indistinct radio chatter]
[suspenseful music]
No Rob?
No, but we have got a stand in.
Again?
Rob called me earlier.
They had a bad night
with the baby,
so he's dropping the twins
at day care.
You're the boss.
So, what have we got?
Looks like a painter
and decorator.
Luckily, we've got an ID
thanks to his driving license,
Harry Steadman.
Someone stuck a screwdriver
in him.
Nice.
Off duty uniformed officer was
first on the scene.
I'm just gonna get his account.
[tense music]
I was, um, I was
on my way to work
and I spotted him driving
erratically.
So, you pulled him over?
No, the-the van ground to
a halt.
By the time I could get to him
it was too late.
Is there anything else, sir?
It's just I'm on duty soon.
We'll need your clothes.
Oh! I've got a-a spare uniform
in my locker.
Can I bag these up and drop 'em
over to you then?
I could give a full statement
then.
Of course. Thanks for your help,
sergeant.
Oh, anytime.
[phone vibrates]
Sarge? Yeah, I'm leaving
my house now.
I'm dropping the twins
at day care.
Come on girls, that's it.
Come on, careful, be careful.
Yeah, I thought I'd meet you
back at base.
It'll all be over by the time
I get to the crime scene.
No, actually, Rob, I'd like you
to see this.
[baby crying]
Yeah.
Come on then, let's go.
Quick.
Quickly, that's it.
[suspenseful music]
The victim looks like he's been
in a fight.
But the cause of death
is clearly
the stab wound in the abdomen.
Presumably, he pulled
the screwdriver out
and bled to death on the way
to hospital.
Another five minutes and he
would have made it.
The driving license
has given us an address.
A pub, The Rose and Crown.
The Rose and Crown?
Whereabouts?
Poplar.
Vivienne, can I have a word?
Something I said?
Who knows?
Do you remember Grace Harper?
She was in witness protection,
I was her handler.
Of course, I remember. She was
murdered, Rob found her body.
She lived at the Rose and Crown.
So, who's this guy?
Grace's long term boyfriend was
Doug Steadman, the landlord.
Presumably, Harry Steadman's
his brother.
I don't want Rob anywhere
near this.
Uh, the detective inspector
and I are gonna
go and do the death knock.
Any particular reason why?
That pub's got a reputation.
Let's just say you two might
not be welcome there.
You're joking?
No one likes pandering
to racists, Rob,
but we have to be sensitive
to the situation.
I was beginning to wonder,
if you'd noticed.
What?
That Rob's checked out
of the job.
-Oh, that's not fair.
-What?
He didn't wanna come to
the crime scene this morning.
What's that about?
He's got a new baby.
[sighs]
I think he's lost his bottle.
-Why?
-I don't know.
All I do know is, he started to
go off the rails after he found
Grace Harper's body.
It hit him really hard.
[dramatic music]
[laughing]
You sure you're in
the right place, darling?
Ah, do you know a Harry
Steadman?
Yeah, I'm his brother.
What's up? Is Harry alright?
I'm Detective Sergeant
Vivienne Cole.
Detective Inspector David
Bradford.
Is there somewhere we can talk?
Somewhere a little more private?
Yeah.
Go on then. Spit it out.
I'm sorry to have to tell you
that your brother Harry
was found dead this morning.
He was what?
Mr. Steadman, your brother was
stabbed
with a screwdriver. This is
being treated as murder.
What?
You okay?
It's a mistake.
We haven't made a formal
identification
but your brother was found in
a yellow van,
registration F-T-0-7-S-W-Z.
Yeah.
Our assumption is that
he was trying to
make it to the hospital.
Mr. Steadman,
do you have any idea
who might have done this
to your brother?
Everybody loved Harry.
He was special.
Did you know that? Did you know
that Harry was special?
[suspenseful music]
Thanks.
Our victim's brother,
Doug Steadman,
has a criminal record.
Caution for assault,
a minor ABH,
then six months prison for
a racially aggravated assault.
-What about Harry?
-No criminal record.
The system shows
he was a victim of assault
two years ago when he was
still at school.
-Who assaulted him?
-Two teenage girls.
Sounds like they'd been
bullying him for a while.
Bullying him?
The report flags him as
vulnerable.
He had learning difficulties.
Oh.
Our Harry hated school.
Waste of time him being there.
But he held down a job
as a painter and decorator?
Had his own business.
No good with the admin,
but Harry was a demon
with a paintbrush.
So, who looks after the books?
My missus.
Or...at least she did.
-Not anymore?
-No.
-Why not?
-She died.
-I'm sorry.
-Don't be.
I'm not.
We weren't together
when it happened.
Can I ask you, Mr. Steadman,
where were you between
8:00 and 9:00 this morning?
Am I some sort of suspect?
We just need to know
for elimination purposes.
I was here. Taking a delivery.
Ask the brewery,
if you don't believe me.
Do you have a child living
with you?
Yeah, my little lad, Rocky.
He's at nursery.
So, it was just you, Harry
and Rocky living here?
That's right.
Your ex who died,
was that Rocky's mum?
Yeah.
-What was her name?
-Grace.
How did she die?
What's this got to do
with Harry?
-It could be relevant.
-It ain't.
Is it okay if we take a look
at Harry's room?
Yeah.
[suspenseful music]
[Doug]Never grew up
my baby brother.
Uh, we didn't find a phone
on Harry.
That's weird, he was glued
to that thing.
[keypad clacking]
-What are you doing?
-Giving it a ring.
[phone rings]
[continues ringing]
Gone to voicemail.
I can't believe he's dead.
Where did you find Harry?
Rotherhithe.
And who found him?
An off duty police officer,
as it happens.
[suspenseful music]
So, what happened
with Grace Harper?
Do you know why she was
murdered?
It's not my investigation.
Rob and I were told to stay away
from the case.
Well, you must have an opinion?
[sighs]
Grace was killed to stop her
from talking.
She was about to blow
the whistle on something big.
Can I ask what?
You can ask.
[dramatic music]
I might know where Harry
Steadman was attacked.
How come?
I found this delivery note
in the glove box of his van.
It's for paint delivered
to a Mrs. Hart
at an address in Peckham
a couple of days ago.
You think he could be working
there this morning?
It's possible.
Do you wanna check it out?
It's a long shot.
We could send local uniform.
Up to you.
Okay.
Oh, before you go.
My mum got this.
It's for the baby.
It's only from the market.
That's great.
Tell her I said thanks.
[dramatic music]
[Rob]
Control requesting backup.
55 Hullbank Avenue, Peckham.
Insecure premises with blood
trail outside.
Possible suspects in premises.
Police!
Police, anybody here?
[suspenseful music]
Billie.
I'm pretty sure this is
the crime scene.
Yeah, can you let the sarge
know...
and send a SOCO team
down here asap? Thanks.
[Samira] Harry?
Is everything alright?
Stay there. Don't touch
anything.
This is my house.
I'm Detective Constable
Rob Brady. Are you Mrs. Hart?
Yeah, the neighbour called
and said the door's wide open.
-What's going on?
-Let's do this outside.
[suspenseful music]
Do you know a Harry Steadman?
He's painting the hall
and the stairs.
I saw blood, has he had
an accident?
I'm sorry to tell you
that Harry Steadman's dead.
Harry's dead?
How? What happened?
We believe he's been murdered.
In my house?
Is he lying dead in my house?
No, he was in his van,
miles away from here.
Why didn't you say that before?
I picked up Harry's phone
by mistake.
I'll tell you where mine is,
some detective's got it.
Well, I don't know. That's what
I need you to find out.
He's mixed race.
[tense music]
That photograph of Grace
in Harry's bedroom,
they were obviously very close.
He must have been devastated,
when she was killed.
So, I'm presuming that Grace
was in possession
of evidence of a crime.
A serious crime.
That's a reasonable presumption.
So, what if Harry knew
what Grace knew?
What? And that's why he's been
killed?
The thought had crossed my mind.
[suspenseful music]
He was a lovely boy.
Gentle. Not the brightest,
but sweet.
So, how'd you know Harry?
He was recommended, I think
it was a mate of my husband's.
When did you leave the house
this morning?
Before eight.
I took the kids to school
and then called into the
restaurant on the way home.
-Restaurant?
-Yeah.
It's how I make a living,
me and Josh,
we opened an organic restaurant
by the river.
Do you recognize this?
It's none of the family's.
Could it be Harry's?
[sighs] It could be,
I really don't know.
Excuse me a moment.
[sighs]
It's me. Harry's dead,
the police are here.
Call me back.
Trying to get hold of my
husband. Voicemail.
I need you to take
a look at this.
We suspect it's cannabis.
Have you seen it before?
Of course not.
We've got children in the house.
-Where did you find it?
-In Harry's toolbox.
And there's far more here
than anyone would
need for personal use.
-You mean he's dealing drugs?
-Do you think that's possible?
I find it very hard to believe.
Harry was so innocent.
[suspenseful music]
I've found two other deaths
associated with that pub.
Two?
You'd better bring us
up to speed.
This is Police Constable
Tyler Bates.
You won't have forgotten
that he was stabbed to death
just under a year ago.
He was in uniform on patrol.
The murder took place
less than 50 meters
from the Rose and Crown.
Uh, were Doug or Harry Steadman
ever suspects?
They were spoken to as
witnesses, never arrested.
But Doug's girlfriend
called 999 that night.
Which is surprising, given that
Doug is a well-known racist.
So, you think
that the girlfriend
went out on
a limb calling an ambulance?
For a black guy? Definitely.
I've tried to track her down.
Turns out Grace Harper
is dead too.
I'm trying to find out
how she died,
but her murder investigation
is locked down and
I don't have the permissions
to access it.
No, I can take care of that.
I want you to concentrate on
what's happened today,
Harry Steadman's murder.
Do me a favour, Billie,
don't mention Grace Harper
to Rob.
Why?
Do you know what?
Don't see it as a favour.
Look on it as a direct order
from a senior office, okay?
Yeah.
[whispers]
Sorry.
Can I help you?
Grace Harper knew who killed
that police officer,
Tyler Bates.
That's why she was
in witness protection.
You know I can't confirm
or deny that.
You don't need to.
The question is,
where was Harry Steadman
the night that PC Bates
was murdered on duty?
Did he see what happened?
You think that's why he was
killed this morning?
To shut him up as well?
Well, what other reason
is there to,
to murder a harmless boy
like Harry Steadman?
You and Rob must know
how Grace Harper was killed.
She was stabbed.
-What's that?
-A phone.
Found it at the crime scene.
-Our victim's?
-Could be.
I'm gonna take it to the lab,
see if they can fast track it.
We might not need it.
I've just got access to
Harry Steadman's phone records.
[tense music]
[Billie]Harry Steadman was
constantly exchanging texts
with the same number.
Do we know who the number
belongs to?
It's a pay as you go, so there's
no subscriber details.
But we ran a quick cell site,
and it's been frequently located
at the restaurant
owned by Josh Hart.
Samira Hart's husband.
Given that Harry Steadman
was so vulnerable,
and the amount of cannabis
SOCO's found in his toolbox,
we wonder if Josh Hart was
using Harry as a courier?
Especially, as Josh Hart
has been cautioned
twice for possession
of cannabis.
Did you ask Samira about the
drugs found in the toolbox?
Of course, but she was all
butter wouldn't melt.
Track the pair of them down.
Speak to her again.
So, Harry Steadman might have
been stabbed in a drugs dispute?
And his connection to Grace
Harper's just a coincidence?
I don't believe in coincidences.
Neither do you.
[suspenseful music]
Get in.
What the hell happened?
Harry went crazy.
He came at me
with a screwdriver.
I should never have told you
where he was.
Didn't have a choice.
He was gonna blow the whistle.
What happened with your brother
this morning,
it was an accident. I swear it.
I only went over there to
talk to him, but...
Harry attacked me.
I could see he was hurt, I...
offered to drive him to A&E
but he wouldn't listen.
I mean, you know
what Harry's like.
I followed the van, I just...
I was desperate to help
but by the time I got there...
-It was too late.
-Why didn't you call me?
I lost my phone. I was...
I was just on my
way to get another one.
He was my kid brother.
This is all down to Grace.
She poisoned Harry's mind,
she turned him against us.
Grace is dead
because you killed her.
Because she was a grass,
she was a...
she was a police informant.
She was determined to see
me and you,
the father of her kid,
banged up in prison.
Remind me what she said to you
the last time she called you.
Hm?
She said there was nothing I
could do to change her mind.
That woman,
she got under
your brother's skin.
This morning, all he kept
saying was...
he had to go to the police.
Well I'm sorry Doug, I really
am, but if anyone is to blame
for Harry's death,
it's Grace.
[tense music]
Samira's in the passenger seat.
[indistinct chatter]
Hello, Samira.
-Where's your husband?
-[Samira] I wish I knew.
What's this, Samira?
Cannabis.
This looks identical
to the package
we found in Harry's toolbox.
Supports the idea that the Harts
were using him as a courier.
I'm gonna take a look round
the restaurant.
[suspenseful music]
-Where are my kids?
-Your mum is with them.
I wanna see them.
We can arrange that for you,
of course.
But in the meantime
it'd be really helpful
if you could let us know how you
really met Harry Steadman.
A young police officer,
Tyler Bates was his name,
he was knifed to death
about a year ago.
Some of the locals decided
to hold a vigil.
Josh thought it'd be a good
chance to sell some weed.
And you met Harry there?
Yeah.
Tyler was knifed to death
outside the pub
that Harry lived in.
Harry felt bad, that's why he
was at the vigil.
So, what happened?
PC Bates was black,
and the pub was a notorious
right wing dive.
Someone recognized Harry,
everyone started screaming
at him, he was crying and...
I ended up stepping in.
So, you came to his rescue?
You don't know me.
He was in trouble, I couldn't
just stand there and do nothing.
Good for you.
After that,
he started coming into
the restaurant.
And we got friendly, I think he
just needed someone to talk to.
Especially, after his
sister in law died.
Sister in law? Doug's wife?
Yeah he loved her. He never
stopped talking about Grace.
Grace Steadman?
No, not Steadman, I don't think
her and Harry's brother
were actually married.
Um, I think her name was Harper?
Yeah, that's it, Grace Harper.
Uh, interview suspended
at 16:23.
I'm sorry.
I made the connection, between
Harry Steadman and Grace Harper,
the Detective Inspector
asked me not to tell you.
All I know is that Grace
Harper's been killed.
What's going on, Rob?
I'm the one who found
Grace Harper dead.
What? How?
I was doing David's dirty work
as usual.
We're in the middle of
an interview!
I'm sure you can handle it.
What's going on here?
Chief Superintendent.
Trainee Detective Constable
Billie Fitzgerald.
Did your colleague
just leave you
to conduct
an interview on your own?
-He's been called away.
-Oh, has he now?
Who's your line manager?
Vivienne Cole?
[tense music]
Grace Harper. Did you think
I wouldn't find out?
-I was worried.
-About what?
-About how you'd react.
-Sorry?
Let's face it, Rob, ever since
you found Grace dead,
you've been falling to pieces.
And whose fault's that?
Detective Sergeant Cole.
Chief Superintendent.
Good to see you.
Can-can I help you, sir?
This trainee detective has been
abandoned by her colleague.
Detective Constable Brady.
Detective Constable Brady,
in the middle of an interview.
Apparently he got called away.
He needed to speak to
the Detective Inspector.
I'll sort it, sir.
Thank you for bringing the
matter to my attention.
I think it's best if you sit
in the interview,
along with Billie here.
I'm going to have a word with
Detective Constable Brady.
Do me a favour.
That's what you say to me
time and time again.
Because we're mates.
As well as colleagues.
You're a mate when it suits you.
Getting me to lie for you.
Do the things that
you don't wanna do.
I just asked you to check up
on Grace.
I didn't know you were gonna
find her dead.
I know you've been struggling
ever since.
I've been trying to
cover for you.
I've got a six week old baby
at home that won't sleep.
Come on, Rob. This has been
going on for months.
Are you telling me I'm not
capable of doing my job?
You can't carry on like this.
-Why won't you let me help you?
-I don't need help.
I offered you counselling
after Grace Harper.
You turned it down.
Stop going on about bloody
Grace Harper!
Hope I'm not interrupting
anything important?
-Sir.
I could hear you two halfway
down the corridor.
What the hell is going on?
So, Rob found Grace Harper dead.
He did.
What happened is on a need to
know basis.
I don't have the full story.
Believe me, sarge, I'm one
person who doesn't need to know.
I'm happy just getting on
with my job.
If you could give us a moment,
detective?
Of course.
So, David,
what is going on here?
We've been investigating
the murder of a young man.
Turns out he's related to
another murder victim.
Something Detective Constable
Brady was working on?
No.
He found the first victim dead.
In my opinion,
he's never got over it.
That's curious.
Given what you do day in,
day out.
Why do you think that experience
affected him so profoundly?
I really don't know.
But he's a good detective?
The best.
Right.
We need to sort this out.
[instrumental music]
-Detective Constable Brady.
-Sir.
I'm assuming you two have a
favourite boozer,
somewhere local?
-Of course.
-Good.
Buy this man a drink.
I've gotta drop this phone
back to the lab.
No. That can wait.
The police service depends on
teamwork and trust.
-You need to rebuild your team.
-Sir.
I don't want either of you
leaving the pub
until you've settled
your differences.
That's an order.
[tense music]
This isn't all on Josh.
'Cause I was the one that
insisted we send the kids
to that school, and it costs
an arm and a leg,
and I told Josh he just had to
find the money.
So, Harry was just a courier?
He wasn't dealing?
Yeah, Harry wasn't sharp enough
to deal.
Josh said the punters would
have him for breakfast.
Was Josh paying Harry
the going rate?
Course not.
Josh is very good at taking
advantage
of people's troubles
and insecurities.
What do you mean?
Harry wanted to move out
of the pub.
Get away from his brother.
Josh persuaded him
that he'd need cash, and that
ferrying drugs round in
his toolbox was how to get it.
Why did Harry want to get away
from his brother?
Something to do with
what happened to Grace I think.
[knocking on door]
What about my house?
We can help you find
someone to clear it up.
I'll be surprised if it can be
sorted today though.
Samira, your husband just
used his Oyster Card
at Surrey Quays Station.
Have you any idea where he
might be headed?
Uh, his friend Dan
lives near there.
Dan who?
Dan Hardcastle I think.
They went to uni together.
And what's their connection now?
Dan supplies the weed
that Josh sells.
I don't suppose you've got
Dan's address?
I don't, I just know
that he lives on a houseboat
in Surrey Quays.
[suspenseful music]
His name is Rob Brady,
wife and three kids.
This is the address.
I reckon you've got an hour,
tops.
Ta.
I've got to get that phone back.
If you get caught,
you're on your own.
Yeah, we both know
that's not true, don't we?
[intense music]
You sure you don't want
a proper drink?
This is fine. Thanks.
[sighs]
Okay, so, council tax records
give me a D Hardcastle,
the boat is moored
at Surrey Quays.
This sounds promising.
Only thing is, I've cross
checked the address
with the electoral roll
and it comes up as Danielle.
That's very interesting.
Do you wanna get a drugs
warrant?
No, we don't have time.
I will text the
detective inspector
and let him know what we're
proposing to do.
[suspenseful music]
When did Cherry tell you
she was pregnant?
She was about three weeks
in I think.
I don't mean that.
How close to you finding
Grace dead?
Pretty close.
-Same day.
-Day after.
Day after you found a young
woman dead
on her living room floor.
And her baby looking on.
What's your point?
Don't tell me you think
I've got Post Traumatic Stress.
I had a colleague...
attended a bombing where
a lot of people died.
He saw terrible things.
He always said it didn't
affect him, it was...
just another day on duty.
Years later,
he saw a clip about it on TV.
He was off work for a year.
That's not what's happening
to me.
[suspenseful music]
[baby crying]
[music continues]
What you said earlier,
you were right.
I can't do this anymore.
Please, stop beating yourself
up, Rob.
Grace was under my protection.
I promised I'd look after her.
I'm the one who let her down.
When her name came up today,
I...
I couldn't face talking to you
about it.
All over again.
I couldn't look you in the eye.
You don't understand.
I do.
When I said I can't do this
anymore,
I wasn't talking about Grace.
I was talking about the job.
I can't do this job anymore.
You know what
I'm saying is true.
You're just tired. Exhausted.
It's not just that.
I can't face the crime scenes,
the families.
Promise me you won't make
any decisions
without talking to me first.
Why don't you go home now?
See, if you can get your head
down for a few hours.
I've gotta drop this phone off
at the lab.
Do it on the way.
Okay.
[dramatic music]
That's it.
[music continues]
Wait.
[music playing on stereo]
Police! Don't move.
Don't you move.
Right, you're gonna be sorry
you did that.
Josh Hart. I'm arresting you
on suspicion of
possession of a controlled drug
with intent to supply.
You do not have to say anything,
but it may harm your defence
if you do not mention
when questioned,
something which you later
rely on in court.
Anything you do say may be
given in evidence.
You're really, really pretty.
Well, someone's gonna have to
recover it.
You are kidding?
[sighs]
Clever girl.
[dramatic music]
[knocks]
-You Rob Brady?
-Who's asking?
That's my house.
My girls' bedroom. What?
If you value the lives of
your children,
you'll give me the phone
you found this morning.
[suspenseful music]
[thud]
[music continues]
According to Josh Hart,
Harry was scared.
I think you're right, Harry's
death had nothing to do
with drugs and everything to do
with shutting him up.
Josh also said something else.
What?
He said the killer had friends
in high places.
That's why they won't get
caught.
I'm guessing you already
knew that?
We're sure the killer is
a serving police officer.
-Do you know who?
-Not yet.
We've worked out how to
break the killer's cover.
But it means deploying another
officer. A detective.
Which detective?
-You.
-Why me?
The killer has an accomplice.
Another serving officer.
And no one knows that officer
better than you.
[theme music]